Platforms supported by tutorial: Linux, Windows.

Requirements: PC, linux VPS or linux PC for hosting.

This will enable you to access all other client's resources as if you were on LAN.
___

When I refer to the host I mean the PC which receives the connections.

When I refer to the clien I mean the devices which connects to the host.

# Windows

* The serverside isn't officially supported by the Wireguard Developper on Windows. I might add it to this tutorial when it is.


## CLIENT

Windows client setup is pretty straight forward.
* Download Wireguard Windows client from [the wireguard site](https://www.wireguard.com/install/)
* Run through the installer.
* Start the Wireguard client
* Make a new profile.
    * Click the little arrow next to "Add tunnel" in the bottom left.
        * Select "Add empty tunnel"
            * Give it a nickname in the name field. (This doesn't affect serverside.)
            * Get config from the host (vps or the linux host)
                * The script, at time of writing saves configs to root's home folder. ```/root/```
                * So to read the config. 
                    * Open a terminal to/on the vps or linux host.
                        * Run ```sudo cat /root/clientname.conf``` on the ***host***.
            * In the big box fill in with what is contained in the client config generated by the host upon running the script.
                * Replace ```0.0.0.0/0``` with ```10.7.0.0/24```.
                    * This makes it so only the traffic directed to any address for the 10.7.0.X goes through the VPN. Thereby preventing the internet access cutting out on the client.
                * Remove the ```DNS``` line.
                    * I found myself losing internet and timing out a lot while that line was in.
            * Click save.
* Click on Activate.
* You're done, you can now communicate with the rest of the VPN network.
___

# Linux

## HOST:

***THIS IS NOT INTENDED TO DIRECT ALL TRAFFIC THROUGH ONLY TO ALLOW RESOURCE ACCESS. THERE WILL NOT BE INTERNET OR IP MASKING.***

* Run Nyr's setup [script](https://github.com/Nyr/wireguard-install).


## CLIENT:

* Ubuntu & Debian variants:
    * Open a terminal
    * Type in ```sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y && sudo apt install wireguard resolvconf -y```
        * This updates the system and installs wireguard and it's dependency resolvconf.
    * Get config from the host (vps or the linux host)
        * The script, at time of writing saves configs to root's home folder. ```/root/```
        * So to read the config. Run ```sudo cat /root/clientname.conf``` on the host.
        * Save it in ```/etc/wireguard/``` as ```wg0.conf```
            * Run ```sudo nano /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf```. This opens a text editor.
                * Paste the config from host in here.
                    * Replace ```0.0.0.0/0``` with ```10.7.0.0/24```.
                        * This makes it so only the traffic directed to any address for the 10.7.0.X goes through the VPN. Thereby preventing the internet access cutting out on the client.
                    * Remove the ```DNS``` line.
                        * I found myself losing internet and timing out a lot while that line was in.
            * Press ```CTRL+X```
            * Type ```Y```
            * Press ```ENTER```
    * Test the config.
        * Run ``` sudo wg-quick up wg0 ```
            * this is the command to start wireguard via cli.
    * If successful, you can enable it so it starts on boot.
        * Run ``` sudo systemctl enable wg-quick­@wg0 && sudo systemctl start wg-quick@wg0 ```
___

# VPS

* This one supports IP masking. 
    * You can ignore the ``` replace 0.0.0.0/0 ``` instruction set for it's clients.

##### Recommended hosts:

[OVH's [VPS](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-ca/vps/)] - No bandwidth limit. Flat pricing. 

[Digital Ocean's [droptlets](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/)] - Scalable. Pay only for what you use.

## HOST

* Run Nyr's setup [script](https://github.com/Nyr/wireguard-install).